As we all see, this is a
Japanese temple, so it's a
tourist temple, and it's very
crowded. When visitors come,
they know it's a
Buddhist temple, even if there are no monks inside. They know there's a
religion called Buddhism, and
they know there's a Buddha.
Even if they don't know who the Buddha is, in
their hearts they
know it's the Buddha. Then, if
people come to visit and
see a sign introducing the temple,
they'll learn a little about the
history of the founding master and understand that it's a
Buddhist practice. So, the very appearance of
a temple creates a karmic connection for
people towards future liberation. That's
why we say that
donating to building temples, sculpting statues,
and casting bells brings merit. Do you understand
this point? Even just the sound of a bell, knowing it's a
temple bell, means there's a Buddha and
monks. When people just know there's a
Buddha, they'll...  Hearing the sound of the
temple bell... Let's consider this temple's
tranquil atmosphere, this temple's solemn atmosphere, the
sound of the temple bell is truly peaceful, isn't it?
Each such moment brings the mind to a state of tranquility,
or the mind of a person will be directed towards that place,
and whenever that direction leads to
liberation, to peace and serenity.
Therefore, why is it that we only need to make a small offering,
and we will all receive
blessings from the Three Jewels? Do you see? Especially a temple that has all three – Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha – it is even more blessed. People who
come will know: "This is
this temple, and this is this
Buddha statue. Here are the monks practicing the Buddha's teachings." The blessings are immense.
That's just how it is. Just a
small offering like that is very beneficial.
We see here that people of all religions, all social
classes, all
ethnic groups, and tourists all
come. We see how beneficial it is. That's why
people don't understand and keep
asking, "Why do we have to make
offerings and build temples?"  The
immense benefit of
liberation lies in the fact that people don't understand the cause and effect. They
don't understand why, even though I don't make offerings to the
Three Jewels, I still receive blessings. People
can't explain it; only those who practice Buddhism
can see it clearly and understand it.
Now, let's continue our tour of the temple.
[Music]